Characteristic Clothing Colors: 
Clothing can come in many colors, and often have to do with particular characterizations. These are the tropes about that.

Compare Hair Colors, Dress-Coded for Your Convenience, Good Guys Garb, Villainous Fashion Sense.

---
Characteristic Clothing Colors Example in 

## Tropes

-   Blue Is Heroic: Blue is associated with heroes.
-   Bring My Red Jacket: When someone clad in red is about to get hurt badly.
-   Chromatic Arrangement: A Power Trio Color-Coded for Your Convenience with the additive primary colors (red, blue, green), subtractive primaries (cyan/blue, magenta/red, yellow), or a group of four that combines the two (red, blue, green, and yellow.)
-   Color-Coded Characters: Using colors to distinguish characters from one another.
-   Color-Coded Patrician: Military leaders, nobility, or royalty wearing certain colors.
-   Cowardly Yellow: Yellow is associated with cowardice.
-   Ethereal White Dress: A character dressed in pale clothing who's either literally or metaphorically dead.
-   Evil Wears Black: Villains wearing black clothes.
-   Good Colors, Evil Colors: When Character Alignment depends on Color Motif.
-   Good Wears White: Heroes in white clothes.
-   Graceful Ladies Like Purple: When a character shows her femininity and/or gracefulness by wearing purple.
-   Grayscale of Evil: Grim-looking villains in white, gray, and black.
-   Lady in Red: A seductress wearing a red dress.
-   Little Black Dress: A simple, short black dress with no decoration or trimming.
-   Little Dead Riding Hood: When a girl dressed in red dies or is in danger.
-   The Men in Black: A secret government agency in charge of maintaining a Masquerade.
-   Movie Superheroes Wear Black: Superheroes wearing black and/or leathery costumes in their films.
-   Pink Girl, Blue Boy: Boys wearing blue and girls wearing pink.
-   Pink Heroine: The color pink associated with superheroines.
-   Pink Is Erotic: The color pink is associated erotic or sexual elements
-   Pink Means Feminine: The color pink associated with femininity.
-   Primary-Color Champion: Heroes wearing red and blue, and sometimes yellow along with them.
-   Princesses Prefer Pink: Princesses wearing pink clothing.
-   Psycho Pink: Pink associated with violent and/or crazy characters.
-   Purple Is Powerful: Purple used to represent or symbolize power.
-   Red and Black and Evil All Over: The colors black and red used to indicate evil.
-   Redhead In Green: A redhead wearing green clothes.
-   Red Hot Masculinity: Masculine men wear red.
-   Red Is Heroic: Red associated with heroes.
-   Red Is Violent: The color red associated with violent, murderous, and blood-hungry characters.
-   Secondary Color Nemesis: Villains wearing green, orange, and/or purple.
-   True Blue Femininity: The color blue associated with femininity.
-   Vibrant Orange: Orange represents energy, passion, and joy.
-   Villain in a White Suit: When a villain's sophistication and managerial position is emphasized by wearing all-white formal clothing.
-   Virgin in a White Dress: Virgins wearing white clothes.
-   White and Red and Eerie All Over: White with red accents as a creepy color scheme.
-   White Is Pure: When white is associated with cleanliness, innocence, and virtue

---
